
**Brutus**

_(Et tu, Brute?)_

Brutus is a experiment in governance. 

It’s main focus is to implement forced rotation systems within leadership contexts. 

In practice, it aims to force the rotation of members of a specific DAO’s council, empower various users, increment diversity and stop power grabs. 

It is developed with the sputnikdao system in mind, but aims to experiment with governance in the wider context. 

**How to implement it**

Brutus needs to be completely automated in order to achieve its proposed purpose. 
If a DAO wants to engage in this experiment, members (starting with the council) forfeit a bond of 5 Near. 

That bond aims to amass the necessary value to allow for staking; in turn, staking alows for the creation of the social tokens Brutus will use to manage the ladder system. 
Brutus alows for any member to engage for a determined period and then leave. 

Since   its   proposed   time-frame   are   trimesters,   the   following   system   governs   the   bond:   if   a member leaves the ladder after more than 6 trimesters, the full 5 Near are restitued. If a member leaves the ladder after 3 trismesters, only 2,5 near are restitued. If a member
wants to leave the ladder before staying there at least 3 trimesters, no restitution takes place. 

Any member can enter the ladder by paying the bond, and will do so starting from the bottom (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7RT50DwWGBc).  In  addition,  the  council  can   vote  and pay for someone to enter the ladder. No other members can do this. 

A percentile is defined: the council has  x amount of people, the successors can never be more than 25% of the total members, the remaining members are citizens. 

**The ladder system**

The ladder has 3 native positions. Council member, the highest tier, Successor, the middle tier,and Citizens, the lowest tier. Members of a DAO ocupy their positions in the ladder according to their ranking.

_Visually, it would be something like this:_

_Council_

councilmember1.near

councilmember2.near

councilmember2.near


_Successors_

succesorsmember1.near

succesorsmember2.near

succesorsmember3.near

succesorsmember4.near

succesorsmember5.near

succesorsmember6.near


_Citizens_

citizensmember1.near

citizensmember2.near

citizensmember3.near

citizensmember4.near

citizensmember5.near

citizensmember6.near

citizensmember7.near

citizensmember8.near

citizensmember9.near

citizensmember10.near

citizensmember11.near

citizensmember12.near

citizensmember13.near



**Managing Time**

The   management   of   time   is   essential   to   the   success   of  Brutus.   The   minimum   time   frame
proposed is a trimester. 

So, time is divided by epochs, and an epoch is a trimester. 

Brutus acts every epoch delivering tokens for everyone’s participation. 

Plus, a timeframe of 6 epochs is established to promote turnout on the Council  tier. Every epoch, Brutus checks if there are Council members with a permanence of 6 epochs or more. If the answer is yes, one of the Councl members in that situation must be demoted to the  Citizens tier, 1 Successor must be promoted to the Council tier, and 1 Citizen must be promoted to the Successors tier. 

The way Brutus chooses who must be demoted and who must be promoted, is by checking the Flowers  and  Daggers  tokens   every   members   was   awarded   (positives and negatives) and establishing a ladder. 

The lowest ranked member of the Council tier in that situation (anyone with at least 6 epochs as council, plus the one with the most daggers) is demoted to the Citizens tier, and the highest ranked member of the successors tier (the one with the best ratio between flowers and daggers) is promoted to the Council tier. 

If more than 1 council member is tied worst rank, Brutus will randomly chose 1 of them. If more than 1 successor is tied for top rank, Brutus will randomly chose 1 of them. If more than 1 citizens member is tied for top rank that tier, Brutus will randomly chose 1 of them.

Is’s important to note that the demoting of a Council member takes into account both the time and ranking system. Anyone who has at least 6 epochs as council is eligible to be demoted and will eventually be even it they have a better ranking than others who are not at that tier for 6 epochs yet. 

In practice, older Council members are expected to be demoted even if they have the highest of rankings.

When a Council member is demoted, they are stripped of all their daggers and flowers, and start anew. 

Besides this system, there is an exception created to solve extreme cases: a Council member who reaches   12  daggers  (double   what   they   will   get   by   just being in the council 6 epochs) is immediately demoted and substituted by a Successor. 

**Social Tokens**

To establish reputation and garantuee the ladder rewards positive behaviour, two social tokens are put into place. 

The first are  Daggers, the second are  Flowers. These are generated by the ammount of Near bonded to the DAO’s Brutus. 

Daggers are the main way in which both negative actions and time is measured. 
Flowers are the main way in which both positive actions and time are measured. 

The following rules govern the attibution of daggers and flowers:

_//this 3 rules aim to increase turnout_

* Council members can only receive daggers. 
* Successors can receive both daggers and flowers. 
* Citizens can only receive flowers. 

* Every trimester each council member receives 1 dagger. 
* When a council member doesn’t vote on a proposal, they receive 1 dagger. (either by the time
it expires or its voted by other council members)

* A successor can receive both flowers and daggers
* Every trimester each successor receives 2 flowers. 
* For every proposal approved, a successor earns 1 flower
* For every proposal not approved, a succesor earns 1 dagger
* For every trimester without a proposal, a successor gains 1 dagger. 

* A citizen can only receive flowers
* Every trimester each citizen receives 1 flowers. 
* For every proposal approved, a citizen earns 1 flower
* For every proposal not approved, a citizen earns 1 dagger


**Final Notes**

Brutus  doesn’t stop organic decisions, like a Council member stepping down out of his own
will. 
